# youtube_data_analysis_

Welcome to the YouTube Data Analysis project! This project aims to analyze viewership data from a huge database of YouTube videos using the YouTube Data API, Python, pandas, and seaborn libraries. 

## Introduction

The YouTube Data Analysis project focuses on extracting insights from a vast database of YouTube videos using the YouTube Data API. By leveraging Python, pandas, and seaborn libraries, we analyze viewership data to understand trends, engagement metrics, and popularity of specific videos.

## Installation

To run the YouTube Data Analysis project locally, follow these steps:
1. Clone the repository to your local machine using the following command:
   
    ``` git clone (file link)```

2. Install the required Python packages using pip:

    ```pip install pandas seaborn googleapiclient```
   
3. Obtain API credentials from the Google Cloud Console for the YouTube Data API and store them securely.

## Usage

Once you have installed the necessary dependencies and obtained API credentials, you can use the project to perform YouTube data analysis by following these steps:

1. Set up your API credentials in the project code by replacing the placeholders with your own credentials.

2. Open the project in your preferred Python environment.

3. Run the youtube_data_analysis.ipynb Jupyter Notebook.

4. Follow the instructions and code snippets provided in the notebook/script to load and analyze the YouTube viewership data.

5. Explore the visualizations and insights generated by the project.

## Data

The YouTube Data Analysis project utilizes the YouTube Data API to retrieve viewership data for specific videos by providing the video id. The API allows access to metrics such as view counts, likes, comments, and other engagement-related data. Adjust the API calls and parameters in the project code to retrieve the desired data for analysis.

## Analysis

The project performs the following analyses on the YouTube data:

1. Data retrieval: Utilize the YouTube Data API to fetch viewership data for specific videos using RESTful API calls.

2. Data cleaning and preprocessing: Handle missing data, perform data type conversions, and filter out irrelevant information.

3. Exploratory data analysis (EDA): Analyze view counts, likes, comments, and other engagement metrics to identify trends and patterns.

4. Data visualization: Utilize seaborn and other libraries to create visualizations, including line charts, bar plots, and heatmaps, to present the findings 
   effectively.

5. Statistical analysis: Perform statistical calculations, such as correlations and distributions, to gain deeper insights into the viewership data.

## Results

The YouTube Data Analysis project aims to provide meaningful insights into the viewership of specific videos on YouTube. The results may include but are not limited to:

1. Trends in view counts over time.
   
2. Correlations between engagement metrics (likes, comments) and view counts of other videos.
   
3. Identification of popular videos based on metrics.

4. who has the highest subscriber and who gets the most views and the amount of videos posted by the channels.

5. The project generates visualizations and reports to make it easier to understand and interpret the results.

## Contributing

 Contributions to the YouTube Data Analysis project are welcome! If you have any suggestions, bug reports, or feature requests, please open an issue on the 
 project's GitHub repository. If you would like to contribute code, feel free to open a pull request after forking the repository.
 






